tools/seq_length/README.rst, before:

Galaxy tool to rename FASTA, QUAL, FASTQ or SFF sequences
=========================================================

This tool is copyright 2011-2017 by Peter Cock, The James Hutton Institute
(formerly SCRI, Scottish Crop Research Institute), UK. All rights reserved.
See the licence text below.

This tool is a short Python script (using Biopython library functions) to rename
sequences from a FASTA, QUAL, FASTQ, or SFF file based on an ID mapping gives as
two columns of a tabular file. The output order follows that of the sequence file,
and if there are duplicates in the input sequence file, there will be duplicates
in the output sequence file.

This tool is available from the Galaxy Tool Shed,

* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_length

See also the sister tools to filter or select sequence files according to IDs
from column(s) of tabular file:

* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_filter_by_id
* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_select_by_id


Automated Installation
======================

This should be straightforward using the Galaxy Tool Shed, which should be
able to automatically install the dependency on Biopython, and then install
this tool and run its unit tests.


Manual Installation
===================

There are just two files to install to use this tool from within Galaxy:

* ``seq_length.py`` (the Python script)
* ``seq_length.xml`` (the Galaxy tool definition)

The suggested location is in a dedicated ``tools/seq_length`` folder.

You will also need to modify the ``tools_conf.xml`` file to tell Galaxy to offer the
tool. One suggested location is in the filters section. Simply add the line::

    <tool file="seq_length/seq_length.xml" />

If you wish to run the unit tests, also move/copy the ``test-data/`` files
under Galaxy's ``test-data/`` folder. Then::

    $ ./run_tests.sh -id seq_length

You will also need to install Biopython 1.54 or later. That's it.


History
=======

======= ======================================================================
Version Changes
------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.0.1  - Initial version.
v0.0.2  - Faster for FASTA and FASTQ.
        - Fixed typo.
v0.0.3  - Improved command line usage (outside of Galaxy).
        - More tests (now covers SFF as well).
        - Fix requesting SFF format.
======= ======================================================================


Developers
==========

Development is here:

https://github.com/peterjc/pico_galaxy/tree/master/tools/seq_length

For pushing a release to the test or main "Galaxy Tool Shed", use the following
Planemo commands (which requires you have set your Tool Shed access details in
``~/.planemo.yml`` and that you have access rights on the Tool Shed)::

    $ planemo shed_update -t testtoolshed --check_diff tools/seq_length/
    ...

or::

    $ planemo shed_update -t toolshed --check_diff tools/seq_length/
    ...

To just build and check the tar ball, use::

    $ planemo shed_upload --tar_only tools/seq_length/
    ...
    $ tar -tzf shed_upload.tar.gz
    test-data/SRR639755_sample_strict.fastq
    test-data/SRR639755_sample_strict.length.tabular
    test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta
    test-data/four_human_proteins.length.tabular
    tools/seq_length/README.rst
    tools/seq_length/seq_length.py
    tools/seq_length/seq_length.xml
    tools/seq_length/tool_dependencies.xml


Licence (MIT)
=============

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Report min/max seq_length; add option for more
TODO: Implement median and N50

tools/seq_length/README.rst, after:

Galaxy tool to rename FASTA, QUAL, FASTQ or SFF sequences
=========================================================

This tool is copyright 2011-2017 by Peter Cock, The James Hutton Institute
(formerly SCRI, Scottish Crop Research Institute), UK. All rights reserved.
See the licence text below.

This tool is a short Python script (using Biopython library functions) to rename
sequences from a FASTA, QUAL, FASTQ, or SFF file based on an ID mapping gives as
two columns of a tabular file. The output order follows that of the sequence file,
and if there are duplicates in the input sequence file, there will be duplicates
in the output sequence file.

This tool is available from the Galaxy Tool Shed,

* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_length

See also the sister tools to filter or select sequence files according to IDs
from column(s) of tabular file:

* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_filter_by_id
* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_select_by_id


Automated Installation
======================

This should be straightforward using the Galaxy Tool Shed, which should be
able to automatically install the dependency on Biopython, and then install
this tool and run its unit tests.


Manual Installation
===================

There are just two files to install to use this tool from within Galaxy:

* ``seq_length.py`` (the Python script)
* ``seq_length.xml`` (the Galaxy tool definition)

The suggested location is in a dedicated ``tools/seq_length`` folder.

You will also need to modify the ``tools_conf.xml`` file to tell Galaxy to offer the
tool. One suggested location is in the filters section. Simply add the line::

    <tool file="seq_length/seq_length.xml" />

If you wish to run the unit tests, also move/copy the ``test-data/`` files
under Galaxy's ``test-data/`` folder. Then::

    $ ./run_tests.sh -id seq_length

You will also need to install Biopython 1.54 or later. That's it.


History
=======

======= ======================================================================
Version Changes
------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.0.1  - Initial version.
v0.0.2  - Faster for FASTA and FASTQ.
        - Fixed typo.
v0.0.3  - Improved command line usage (outside of Galaxy).
        - More tests (now covers SFF as well).
        - Fix requesting SFF format.
v0.0.4  - Report mean, minimum and maximum sequence lengths (via stdout).
        - Option to compute median and N50 as well.
======= ======================================================================


Developers
==========

Development is here:

https://github.com/peterjc/pico_galaxy/tree/master/tools/seq_length

For pushing a release to the test or main "Galaxy Tool Shed", use the following
Planemo commands (which requires you have set your Tool Shed access details in
``~/.planemo.yml`` and that you have access rights on the Tool Shed)::

    $ planemo shed_update -t testtoolshed --check_diff tools/seq_length/
    ...

or::

    $ planemo shed_update -t toolshed --check_diff tools/seq_length/
    ...

To just build and check the tar ball, use::

    $ planemo shed_upload --tar_only tools/seq_length/
    ...
    $ tar -tzf shed_upload.tar.gz
    test-data/SRR639755_sample_strict.fastq
    test-data/SRR639755_sample_strict.length.tabular
    test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta
    test-data/four_human_proteins.length.tabular
    tools/seq_length/README.rst
    tools/seq_length/seq_length.py
    tools/seq_length/seq_length.xml
    tools/seq_length/tool_dependencies.xml


Licence (MIT)
=============

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
