tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.rst, before:

Galaxy wrapper for NLStradamus v1.7 or v1.8 (C++ version)
=========================================================

This wrapper is copyright 2011-2013 by Peter Cock, The James Hutton Institute
(formerly SCRI, Scottish Crop Research Institute), UK. All rights reserved.
See the licence text below.

NLStradamus is a command line tools for predicting nuclear localization
signals (NLSs) in a FASTA file of proteins using a Hidden Markov Model (HMM).

This wrapper is available from the Galaxy Tool Shed at:
http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/nlstradamus

A. N. Nguyen Ba, A. Pogoutse, N. Provart, A. M. Moses.
NLStradamus: a simple Hidden Markov Model for nuclear localization signal prediction.
BMC Bioinformatics. 2009 Jun 29;10(1):202.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-10-202

http://www.moseslab.csb.utoronto.ca/NLStradamus

Early versions of NLStradamus did not have a native tabular output format, this
was added in version 1.7. Additionally a fast C++ implementation was added at
this point (early versions of NLStradamus came as a perl script only).

Version 1.8 fixed a C++ compilation issue on modern compilers, but is otherwise
unchanged.


Automated Installation
======================

This should be straightforward, Galaxy should automatically download and install
the C++ implementation of NLStradamus v1.8, and run the unit tests.


Manual Installation
===================
This wrapper expects the compiled C++ binary "NLStradamus" to be on the system
PATH.

To install the wrapper copy or move the following files under the Galaxy tools
folder, e.g. in a tools/protein_analysis folder:

* nlstradamus.xml (the Galaxy tool definition)
* nlstradamus.txt (this README file)

You will also need to modify the tools_conf.xml file to tell Galaxy to offer the
tool. If you are using other protein analysis tools like TMHMM or SignalP, put
it next to them. Just add the line (matching the chosen install path)::

  <tool file="protein_analysis/nlstradamus.xml" />

If you wish to run the unit tests, also add this to tools_conf.xml.sample
and move/copy the test-data files under Galaxy's test-data folder. Then::

    $ ./run_functional_tests.sh -id nlstradamus

That's it.


History
=======

======= ======================================================================
Version Changes
------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.0.3  - Initial public release
v0.0.4  - Adding DOI link to reference
          (Documentation change only)
v0.0.5  - Assume non-zero return codes are errors
v0.0.6  - Show output help text using a table
        - Added unit tests
v0.0.7  - Automatic installation of the NLStradamus binary when installed
          via the Galaxy Tool Shed
v0.0.8  - Link to Tool Shed added to help text and this documentation.
        - Use reStructuredText for this README file.
======= ======================================================================


Developers
==========

This script and related tools are being developed on the following hg branch:
http://bitbucket.org/peterjc/galaxy-central/src/tools

For making the "Galaxy Tool Shed" http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/ tarball use
the following command from the Galaxy root folder::

    $ tar -czf nlstradmus.tar.gz tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.xml tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.rst tools/nlstradamus/tool_dependencies.xml test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta test-data/four_human_proteins.nlstradamus.tabular test-data/empty.fasta test-data/empty_nlstradamus.tabular

Check this worked::

    $ tar -tzf nlstradmus.tar.gz
    tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.xml
    tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.rst
    tools/nlstradamus/tool_dependencies.xml
    test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta
    test-data/four_human_proteins.nlstradamus.tabular
    test-data/empty.fasta
    test-data/empty_nlstradamus.tabular


Licence (MIT/BSD style)
=======================

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation with or without modifications and for any purpose and
without fee is hereby granted, provided that any copyright notices
appear in all copies and that both those copyright notices and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the
names of the contributors or copyright holders not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software
without specific prior permission.

THE CONTRIBUTORS AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OF THIS SOFTWARE DISCLAIM ALL
WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS
OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE
OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

NOTE: This is the licence for the Galaxy Wrapper only. NLStradamus
is is available and licenced separately (under the GPL v3 or later).

Commit message:

Adopt MIT licence for nlstradamus wrapper

tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.rst, after:

Galaxy wrapper for NLStradamus v1.7 or v1.8 (C++ version)
=========================================================

This wrapper is copyright 2011-2013 by Peter Cock, The James Hutton Institute
(formerly SCRI, Scottish Crop Research Institute), UK. All rights reserved.
See the licence text below (MIT licence).

NLStradamus is a command line tool for predicting nuclear localization
signals (NLSs) in a FASTA file of proteins using a Hidden Markov Model (HMM).

This wrapper is available from the Galaxy Tool Shed at:
http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/nlstradamus

A. N. Nguyen Ba, A. Pogoutse, N. Provart, A. M. Moses.
NLStradamus: a simple Hidden Markov Model for nuclear localization signal prediction.
BMC Bioinformatics. 2009 Jun 29;10(1):202.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-10-202

http://www.moseslab.csb.utoronto.ca/NLStradamus

Early versions of NLStradamus did not have a native tabular output format, this
was added in version 1.7. Additionally a fast C++ implementation was added at
this point (early versions of NLStradamus came as a perl script only).

Version 1.8 fixed a C++ compilation issue on modern compilers, but is otherwise
unchanged.


Automated Installation
======================

This should be straightforward, Galaxy should automatically download and install
the C++ implementation of NLStradamus v1.8, and run the unit tests.


Manual Installation
===================
This wrapper expects the compiled C++ binary "NLStradamus" to be on the system
PATH.

To install the wrapper copy or move the following files under the Galaxy tools
folder, e.g. in a tools/protein_analysis folder:

* nlstradamus.xml (the Galaxy tool definition)
* nlstradamus.txt (this README file)

You will also need to modify the tools_conf.xml file to tell Galaxy to offer the
tool. If you are using other protein analysis tools like TMHMM or SignalP, put
it next to them. Just add the line (matching the chosen install path)::

  <tool file="protein_analysis/nlstradamus.xml" />

If you wish to run the unit tests, also add this to tools_conf.xml.sample
and move/copy the test-data files under Galaxy's test-data folder. Then::

    $ ./run_functional_tests.sh -id nlstradamus

That's it.


History
=======

======= ======================================================================
Version Changes
------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.0.3  - Initial public release
v0.0.4  - Adding DOI link to reference
          (Documentation change only)
v0.0.5  - Assume non-zero return codes are errors
v0.0.6  - Show output help text using a table
        - Added unit tests
v0.0.7  - Automatic installation of the NLStradamus binary when installed
          via the Galaxy Tool Shed
v0.0.8  - Link to Tool Shed added to help text and this documentation.
        - Use reStructuredText for this README file.
        - Adopted standard MIT licence.
======= ======================================================================


Developers
==========

This script and related tools are being developed on the following hg branch:
http://bitbucket.org/peterjc/galaxy-central/src/tools

For making the "Galaxy Tool Shed" http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/ tarball use
the following command from the Galaxy root folder::

    $ tar -czf nlstradmus.tar.gz tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.xml tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.rst tools/nlstradamus/tool_dependencies.xml test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta test-data/four_human_proteins.nlstradamus.tabular test-data/empty.fasta test-data/empty_nlstradamus.tabular

Check this worked::

    $ tar -tzf nlstradmus.tar.gz
    tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.xml
    tools/nlstradamus/nlstradamus.rst
    tools/nlstradamus/tool_dependencies.xml
    test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta
    test-data/four_human_proteins.nlstradamus.tabular
    test-data/empty.fasta
    test-data/empty_nlstradamus.tabular


Licence (MIT)
=============

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
