tools/filters/seq_rename.rst, before:

Galaxy tool to rename FASTA, QUAL, FASTQ or SFF sequences
=========================================================

This tool is copyright 2011-2013 by Peter Cock, The James Hutton Institute
(formerly SCRI, Scottish Crop Research Institute), UK. All rights reserved.
See the licence text below.

This tool is a short Python script (using Biopython library functions) to rename
sequences from a FASTA, QUAL, FASTQ, or SFF file based on an ID mapping gives as
two columns of a tabular file. The output order follows that of the sequence file,
and if there are duplicates in the input sequence file, there will be duplicates
in the output sequence file.

This tool is available from the Galaxy Tool Shed,

* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_rename

See also the sister tools to filter or select sequence files according to IDs
from column(s) of tabular file:

* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_filter_by_id
* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_select_by_id


Automated Installation
======================

This should be straightforward using the Galaxy Tool Shed, which should be
able to automatically install the dependency on Biopython, and then install
this tool and run its unit tests.


Manual Installation
===================

There are just two files to install to use this tool from within Galaxy:

* seq_rename.py (the Python script)
* seq_rename.xml (the Galaxy tool definition)

The suggested location is in the Galaxy folder tools/filters next to the tool
for calling sff_extract.py for converting SFF to FASTQ or FASTA + QUAL.

You will also need to modify the tools_conf.xml file to tell Galaxy to offer the
tool. One suggested location is in the filters section. Simply add the line::

    <tool file="filters/seq_rename.xml" />

If you wish to run the unit tests, also add this to tools_conf.xml.sample
and move/copy the test-data files under Galaxy's test-data folder. Then::

    $ ./run_functional_tests.sh -id seq_rename

You will also need to install Biopython 1.54 or later. That's it.


History
=======

======= ======================================================================
Version Changes
------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.0.1   - Initial version.
v0.0.2   - Record script version when run from Galaxy.
         - Add unit test.
         - Check for errors using Python script's return code.
v0.0.3   - Link to Tool Shed added to help text and this documentation.
v0.0.4   - Automated installation of Biopython dependency.
         - Use reStructuredText for this README file.
======= ======================================================================


Developers
==========

This script and related tools are being developed on the following hg branch:
http://bitbucket.org/peterjc/galaxy-central/src/tools

For making the "Galaxy Tool Shed" http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/ tarball use
the following command from the Galaxy root folder::

    $ tar -czf seq_rename.tar.gz tools/filters/seq_rename.* tools/filters/repository_dependencies.xml test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta test-data/four_human_proteins.rename.tabular test-data/four_human_proteins.rename.fasta

Check this worked::

    $ tar -tzf seq_rename.tar.gz
    tools/filter/seq_rename.py
    tools/filter/seq_rename.rst
    tools/filter/seq_rename.xml
    tools/filters/repository_dependencies.xml
    test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta
    test-data/four_human_proteins.rename.tabular
    test-data/four_human_proteins.rename.fasta


Licence (MIT/BSD style)
=======================

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation with or without modifications and for any purpose and
without fee is hereby granted, provided that any copyright notices
appear in all copies and that both those copyright notices and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the
names of the contributors or copyright holders not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software
without specific prior permission.

THE CONTRIBUTORS AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OF THIS SOFTWARE DISCLAIM ALL
WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS
OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE
OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Adopt standard MIT License for these tools

tools/filters/seq_rename.rst, after:

Galaxy tool to rename FASTA, QUAL, FASTQ or SFF sequences
=========================================================

This tool is copyright 2011-2013 by Peter Cock, The James Hutton Institute
(formerly SCRI, Scottish Crop Research Institute), UK. All rights reserved.
See the licence text below.

This tool is a short Python script (using Biopython library functions) to rename
sequences from a FASTA, QUAL, FASTQ, or SFF file based on an ID mapping gives as
two columns of a tabular file. The output order follows that of the sequence file,
and if there are duplicates in the input sequence file, there will be duplicates
in the output sequence file.

This tool is available from the Galaxy Tool Shed,

* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_rename

See also the sister tools to filter or select sequence files according to IDs
from column(s) of tabular file:

* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_filter_by_id
* http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/peterjc/seq_select_by_id


Automated Installation
======================

This should be straightforward using the Galaxy Tool Shed, which should be
able to automatically install the dependency on Biopython, and then install
this tool and run its unit tests.


Manual Installation
===================

There are just two files to install to use this tool from within Galaxy:

* seq_rename.py (the Python script)
* seq_rename.xml (the Galaxy tool definition)

The suggested location is in the Galaxy folder tools/filters next to the tool
for calling sff_extract.py for converting SFF to FASTQ or FASTA + QUAL.

You will also need to modify the tools_conf.xml file to tell Galaxy to offer the
tool. One suggested location is in the filters section. Simply add the line::

    <tool file="filters/seq_rename.xml" />

If you wish to run the unit tests, also add this to tools_conf.xml.sample
and move/copy the test-data files under Galaxy's test-data folder. Then::

    $ ./run_functional_tests.sh -id seq_rename

You will also need to install Biopython 1.54 or later. That's it.


History
=======

======= ======================================================================
Version Changes
------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
v0.0.1   - Initial version.
v0.0.2   - Record script version when run from Galaxy.
         - Add unit test.
         - Check for errors using Python script's return code.
v0.0.3   - Link to Tool Shed added to help text and this documentation.
v0.0.4   - Automated installation of Biopython dependency.
         - Use reStructuredText for this README file.
         - Adopt standard MIT License.
======= ======================================================================


Developers
==========

This script and related tools are being developed on the following hg branch:
http://bitbucket.org/peterjc/galaxy-central/src/tools

For making the "Galaxy Tool Shed" http://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/ tarball use
the following command from the Galaxy root folder::

    $ tar -czf seq_rename.tar.gz tools/filters/seq_rename.* tools/filters/repository_dependencies.xml test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta test-data/four_human_proteins.rename.tabular test-data/four_human_proteins.rename.fasta

Check this worked::

    $ tar -tzf seq_rename.tar.gz
    tools/filter/seq_rename.py
    tools/filter/seq_rename.rst
    tools/filter/seq_rename.xml
    tools/filters/repository_dependencies.xml
    test-data/four_human_proteins.fasta
    test-data/four_human_proteins.rename.tabular
    test-data/four_human_proteins.rename.fasta


Licence (MIT)
=============

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
